.\"-
.\"Released as "All Rights Reserved"
.\"until further notice/application of a formal license
.\"
.Dd June 3, 2014
.Dt cat 1
.Os Anima
.Sh NAME
.Nm cat
.Nd concatenate and print files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility reads files sequentially, writing them to the standard output.
The
.Ar file
operands are processed in command-line order.
If
.Ar file
is a single dash
.Pq Sq \&-
or absent,
.Nm
reads from the standard input.
If
.Ar file
is a
.Ux
domain socket,
.Nm
connects to it and then reads it until
.Dv EOF .
This complements the
.Ux
domain binding capability available in
.Xr inetd 8 .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
The command:
.Pp
.Dl "cat file1"
.Pp
will print the contents of
.Ar file1
to the standard output.
.Pp
The command:
.Pp
.Dl "cat file1 file2 > file3"
.Pp
will sequentially print the contents of
.Ar file1
and
.Ar file2
to the file
.Ar file3 ,
truncating
.Ar file3
if it already exists.
See the manual page for your shell (i.e.,
.Xr sh 1 )
for more information on redirection.
.Pp
The command:
.Pp
.Dl "cat file1 - file2 - file3"
.Pp
will print the contents of
.Ar file1 ,
print data it receives from the standard input until it receives an
.Dv EOF
.Pq Sq ^D
character, print the contents of
.Ar file2 ,
read and output contents of the standard input again, then finally output
the contents of
.Ar file3 .
Note that if the standard input referred to a file, the second dash
on the command-line would have no effect, since the entire contents of the file
would have already been read and printed by
.Nm
when it encountered the first
.Ql \&-
operand.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr head 1 ,
.Xr more 1 ,
.Xr pr 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr tail 1 ,
.Xr vis 1 ,
.Xr zcat 1 ,
.Xr setbuf 3
.Rs
.%A Rob Pike
.%T "UNIX Style, or cat -v Considered Harmful"
.%J "USENIX Summer Conference Proceedings"
.%D 1983
.Re
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is compliant with the
.St -p1003.2-92
specification.
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm
utility appeared in
.At v1 .
.An Dennis Ritchie
designed and wrote the first man page.
It appears to have been
.Xr cat 1 .
.Sh BUGS
Because of the shell language mechanism used to perform output
redirection, the command
.Dq Li cat file1 file2 > file1
will cause the original data in file1 to be destroyed!